There's no nightmare fuel worse than being in
one of Jigsaw's traps. If he picks you for one
of his games, what would you do? In this video,
I'm going to break down how to beat every single
one of his traps, and the mistakes you should
avoid, starting with the 2017 movie Jigsaw,
where his genius shines through, in both the
games, and an ending that connects every trap in
the series. And I will do the whole franchise
if I have to. This is how to beat Jigsaw.
We start off following a man running from
the cops, and into an empty warehouse. Up
on the roof top, he finds a detonator duct
taped to a beam. Desperate and cornered,
he demands to see a detective Halloran, and
if he doesn't come in the next 17 minutes,
five people are going to die. The detective
arrives at the scene with his partner, and
obviously they think he means it's five hostages
strapped to a bomb, but time is running out. He
pulls on the switch and the cops start firing.
But something is wrong with this whole situation,
and it doesn't take a detective to see it. He
pulled the trigger, but there was no explosion.
He's holding a long range wireless detonator,
which typically has a range of 1000 meters and
must have line of sight, which means whatever it's
going to trigger is nearby, but there's nothing
around them except empty factories. So there's
no one here to kill. This is highly suspicious.
The detective looks for clues, not realizing he
will soon be caught in one of Jigsaw's traps.
With his dying words, he tells the detectives the
games have begun, and somewhere in a dark room,
a countdown has reached zero and four people wake
up. And they realize the only way out is through
a door of saw blades, until they hear the voice
of a man, and he's speaking directly to them.
They must now play a game. All that's required
is a blood sacrifice. With that ominous warning,
their chains start pulling them towards the
spinning blades. If I were in this room,
I'd be absolutely terrified, but they're all
wasting time by resisting because this trap
is possible to escape with some quick
thinking and strategy. Now, you didn't
say it needed to be your blood, so you might
think to push someone into your door's blades,
which is super cold blooded, even for me. But
the room is being monitored, and there's no
way to evade any potential consequences,
so cheating isn't a great option here.
One woman has an epiphany. She walks towards the
spinning blades and cuts her arm. Immediately,
a green light flickers on her helmet and the
blades in her door stop in place. She figured
it out quickly. But first, I would definitely
be trying to cut the chains with the saw.
Only if that fails, is it time to think about
where to cut yourself. Your limbs have vital
arteries and are important for mobility,
and if you think a finger will do the trick,
you'll find it hard to avoid cutting a flexor
tendon, as the margin for error is as little
as three millimeters, and circular saws are not
forgiving. The best part of the body to cut is
your stomach's subcutaneous adipose fat tissue,
damaging no vital organs and no loss of mobility.
The others follow their lead and cut
themselves as they're dragged to the next room,
but the last man is in for a rude awakening
as he's too late to open the door.
This was a mercy kill compared to
what's awaiting them next in this room.
Meanwhile, a body has been found wearing the
same distinctive bucket. In the autopsy, two
medics find a jigsaw-shaped cut in the man's skin.
The calling card of the legendary Jigsaw Killer,
John Kramer, who's been dead for 10 years. The
lead doctor pulls out a chip from the man's wound,
revealing that there are four more people left
in his trap. The survivors who made it past the
first stage, try to figure out what is going on
and why they've been chosen, and they realize
they've been chosen for past sins. But it's
time to focus on what matters. This is a game,
and games can be won. You have a critical moment
here to plan ahead for what's to come. If you're
not checking the environment for tools that
could help you, then you're wasting your time.
This place is loaded with useful tools. The teeth
of the pitchfork could be put through the chains
to stop it. You could also use the hoof nipper
to break the camera. Suddenly, the winches start
pulling them forward. The first instinct is to
quickly wrap a chain around a sturdy object,
but it likely won't be enough. Your best chance is
to cross your own chain around the winch and into
a knot, so that as it tightens, it pulls on itself
and jams, and the knot wouldn't be able to move
through the wheels. One guy spots a tape recorder
and grabs it, causing the winches to break off,
except this is a set up for the next trap to be
hung from the ceiling. Three syringes drop down,
all marked with numbers. The tape recorder has a
message saying, a purse snatcher has been poisoned
and only one syringe has the antidote. The others
have saline or a deadly acid. They're only clue is
a question, what is the value of a life to you?
Luckily, the blonde's guilty expression is all
the proof they need to know that she's the thief.
The problem, she isn't willing to take the shot.
Now, with that being said, there might be a way
to outsmart this. An acid will burn. Put someone's
skin or supply blood to test the compounds. If
you experience itching, rashes or skin necrosis,
you may be able to eliminate it, allowing
you to confirm by the taste of salt that one
of the remaining two really is saline solution,
revealing the last syringe as the antidote. But
relying on others' cooperation is risky, because
hesitation or dishonesty will get us killed.
In this case, the puzzle could be
solved without their confession.
The tape gave enough information here.
A purse snatcher who doesn't value life.
If the lesson he wants to shame you with is that
life is worth very little to you, then the lowest
number of 3.53 could be guessed correctly
as a monetary value, saving everyone from
a bad case of the Mondays. Instead, the bearded
man stabs all three syringes into the blondie,
and they're finally set free. They all watch in
horror as the acid eats her face to a leaky pulp.
The guy in plaid checks the antidote syringe,
finding a sequence of numbers inside,
and uses them to successfully unlock the
next door, which is great, but what about
the windows? I would stack the bales of hay to
get up and see if I can break free. But sure,
let's just walk into the next trap. They might
be safe for now, but another brutal trap awaits
them through this door. I would take precautions
here. We should survey the room before leaving
and grab what we can, because it might prove
useful and you simply don't know what's next.
The last door is mechanized, so jamming the
door with this wheelbarrow could keep it open
long enough for them to retreat when things go
horribly wrong. They don't stop to consider any of
this as the door slams behind them, forcing them
inwards to face their next twisted confessional.
But I'm such a coward, you're gonna
have to drag me out of the first room.
The cops find more evidence that
Jigsaw is somehow still alive,
confirming the voiceprint in the message
was definitely Jigsaw's. They don't know
what to make of this, because all signs point
towards an impossible Jigsaw resurrection,
but if they dug deeper they could have solved this
case right here. Any audio recording since 2005
can be accurately dated using just the background
hum. The electrical frequency from our power
grids have a unique fluctuation, and matching
that frequency to a database, they would have
been able to confirm which power grid it was
recorded in, and the date of its recording.
The three survivors enter another room and
find that not only are the windows barred,
but they're in the countryside. These traps
are personal, so it's time for honesty.
The bearded man admits he's cheated on his
wives along with a slew of other crimes.
The woman tells them her husband accidentally
smothered her baby and she's never forgiven him.
Hardly a confession. We also know this woman was
a thief whose greed ended up killing someone.
We'll find out that every single one of
these people are here because they did some
bad [0:06:46.9] ____ and Jigsaw tracked them
down for payback, but you still have a chance.
Now, this room is suspiciously void of traps,
but you can guarantee there's one somewhere,
but it's not time to break out yet. Find
the trap first without setting it off. By
cautiously investigating the area, they find
a great vantage point from the sides here,
exposing the trap beneath the floorboards.
Then, it's time to find the camera and break it,
giving you enough time to avoid the trap and break
down the door with the tools inside. But this
guy doesn't care much for planning as he falls
through the floorboard and right into the trap.
Breaking through the floor with a
shovel, they find a tape recorder,
he finally grabs it, and they play it back.
Pull the lever and everyone goes free.
I would try to get them out by attaching
these chains and hooks on the pulley wheels,
pulling to reverse the trap and give
enough slack to pull his leg out.
But this wouldn't work because I'm not
on steroids. My very average strength
probably won't match the pulley's force.
A better method is to find something heavy
enough to use as a counterweight to help relieve
the tension of the wire. There are tons of heavy
objects in this room, and if you can figure
out the leverage needed, it might be enough.
Suddenly, all the lights go out, except for the
one in the silo. Together, they walk inside and
find a TV remote hanging on a string. With
no other options, they grab it, immediately
locking them in. The TV turns on, announcing that
this guy must pull the lever to save their lives,
but might lose his leg as a result. And in that
moment, the silo begins to fill with grain.
Okay, let's take another look. This is obviously
a trap, so maybe take the doors off the hinges
before entering in case you need to bail, but
they've made this harder on themselves. Grain
entrapment is no joke, and takes only 22 seconds
to be completely submerged. Desperate as it might
seem, I would wrap my shoelaces around my hands,
and weave them through holes in the iron mesh to
stay on top of the grain. Also, dispersing weight
across the grain makes it harder to get sucked in.
It's not a permanent solution, but it buys time
for this guy to sack up and pull the lever.
Trapped in the grain and unable to move,
a pitchfork flies down, inches away from
them. This just got a lot more interesting.
Saw blades and knives begin raining down,
one of them flunk right into his shoulder, and
they really don't have much to work with here,
but every weapon that misses them is an object
they can use to protect themselves. The screams
of pain overwhelm him with guilt, and he pulls the
lever. His leg gets sliced, the silo doors burst,
and the exit swings open, leading to the next
room. This was one leg short of a miracle.
Meanwhile in the lab, they discover
particles of pig feces and blood under
the nails of the victim that matches the
DNA of Jigsaw himself. He must be alive.
And all this could help them find the others,
but they're interrupted with a new arrival.
It looks like the purse thief. Her autopsy shows
that she has a jigsaw-shaped cut in her tongue
and the assistant gets way too excited about
this. And there's a lot more where that came from,
as she shows the doctor her hobby room full
of Jigsaw traps. It's incredibly suspicious,
but also kind of kinky. Fashioning a tourniquet
with her belt, the woman bandages the guy's leg,
while the other survivor struggles
to force open a door. Suddenly,
the tractor's lights turn on and inside is a tape
recorder meant for him, and he fell for the bait.
Okay, hay scattered across the floor
is not an accident. Unfortunately,
you have to play the game, but you don't have
to walk into its trap if you can help it,
environmental awareness saves lives. So
maybe next time before you get caught,
investigate the giant trap in
the middle of the floor first.
The recorder continues. As we find out that
years ago, he sold a faulty motorbike to
Jigsaw's nephew, who died minutes after buying it.
If he doesn't pull the handbrake at the bottom to
stop the swirling blades, he'll be turned into
human sashimi. Now, once you're lowered in,
you don't have a chance, so lucky for
him, the gears of this trap are exposed.
This can be jammed by putting a strong metal
object between the gears or the wheel spokes.
The woman tries this and it works, but not long
after, the force pulls through the obstruction.
Okay, this thing is freaking strong, but there
was something they could have done even before
all of this. She could have helped him
swing as soon as he was off the ground,
increasing his angle of momentum, which would
give him several chances to reach the bike and
pull himself onto it. I mean, look how close he
is already, it wouldn't take much. But that's only
half the battle, there's no kill switch and the
only break is through the trap. If the engine is
already running, disconnecting the battery won't
cut it off. Now, I'm not a motorcycle mechanic,
so this one is tricky, but maybe
this key in the ignition will help.
It's worth a shot. But time runs out for
him, resulting in another brutal death.
The woman is able to force open a doorway and
make it to the other side, but she sees a man
in a pig mask and gets knocked out. The next day,
the suspect has gone missing from the hospital,
and when John Kramer's casket is opened up, the
suspect's body is inside and Jigsaw is nowhere to
be found. The woman wakes up to find both her and
the other survivor have been shackled to the wall
by John Kramer, the Jigsaw killer himself, who
is very much alive, and tells them they've been
thinking about all of this backwards. Jigsaw
reveals that she had lied about her husband
smothering the baby, she was the one who
killed it and framed her husband for murder,
so now he's made this really simple. Loaded with
one shell, he leaves them one shotgun placed
between them both. The woman realizes someone
will have to die and she won't let it be her.
Now, they're forgetting two key details here.
First, there's always a way out for everyone,
and second, he wants to make a moral point. Now,
this might be with the benefit of hindsight,
but when he holds up the shell and says, "Here's
the key to freedom," maybe it has a little more
meaning and maybe trying to kill someone is
playing right into his hands. They would have
seen this in every room, with each tape talking
about how they put their lives before others.
But how do we beat this? Investigating the
room and devices before any rash action is
always the right plan. But they don't. He begs
her not to kill him, but she grabs the gun,
lines up the barrel and pulls the trigger,
her face ripping open as the gun backfires.
He then has a horrifying realization as he sees
fragments of keys, color-coded green for the
woman's lock and yellow for his. The keys were
in the shell. They could have escaped, if she
hadn't fired the gun. This is what he meant,
when he said they've got all this backwards.
But wait, let's back up, because there may
have been another way. This is actually the
most forgiving trap so far, because there's no
time limit here and the trap is only a padlock.
But let's say there were no keys, I'm immediately
grabbing the gun to prevent the other guy from
shooting. This railing is attached by four
screws on each end. With no time limit,
it might be possible to kick it loose to slip the
chains out. However, this isn't a great strategy,
if you only have one leg. Without a time
limit, I would try to disassemble the gun,
using the pieces to pry open the padlock, which
is possible to do with a pair of wrenches.
It would likely be extremely
difficult in this case,
but all it needs is leverage and sturdy tools.
It also might be your only chance to live.
The detective learns about the assistant's
warehouse and they bust into an extremely
suspicious, museum of terror. Now behind a
fake wall, they find another shredded victim,
hanging from the ceiling. The doctor gets
arrested because he was seeing the assistant
at the warehouse the night before. But claims,
that inside the suspects body is a bullet that
could have only been fired by Halloran's gun.
This means the detective shot him, to hide his
true identity as the Jigsaw killer, and he
shows the detective the evidence. Back home,
the assistant tells him she knows where Jigsaw
is playing his game and decides to check it out.
They arrive at the farm where they find the traps
but Halloran has followed them. He tries to take
them hostage and they're able to break away, and
split up and Halloran gets knocked out. He and the
doctor wake up with a collar of laser cutters
on their necks. This is Jigsaw's final game,
confess their sins as to why they
deserve to die and they'll be set free.
Okay, hold up. I'm not waiting around for
a confession here. I can't see my trap,
but I can see the other person's and assume mine
is identical. To produce enough energy to power
these lasers, there must be wiring inside the
mechanized arm. It won't hold your weight extended
like this. The first thing I'm trying to do is
grab the collar and use my weight to pull it down,
hoping to break the arm, and maybe sever the power
supply. Halloran activates the doctor's collar,
and forces him to confess his crime. He was the
one that messed up Jigsaw's cancer x-rays, dooming
him. But it's not the confession that Jigsaw
wants and the doctor has his neck lasered open,
killing him instantly. The detective is next
and his lasers turn on. He confesses a whole
laundry list of crimes. But there's something
wrong here, the lasers on his collar burn the
ceiling above him, while the ones on the doctor's
didn't. What is going on? The doctor gets up from
the floor and confesses that he is Jigsaw.
Everything was staged and the trap was fake.
Years ago, he was chosen for a game because
he really did screw up Jigsaw's x-ray,
which led to the cancer being detected too
late to treat him. But Jigsaw had mercy at the
last minute and saved him, because it was just an
accident. Letting him become Jigsaw's apprentice.
He was the guy in the beginning of the movie,
who we thought had died in the buzz saw room.
Now, 10 years later, he set things up
to trick them that Jigsaw was back,
planted fake evidence to frame the detective.
He shot the first suspect on the rooftop with a
sniper and faked the tapes with Jigsaw's voice.
And no one will know the truth. All because the
detective let this guy, the criminal
who killed the doctor's wife, go free.
The doctor leaves Halloran to his death as a laser
cutter splits his head into pieces. Game over.
Now, this is just the start. There are more
convoluted horrifying Jigsaw traps out there,
and we're going to get them all in upcoming
videos. But what do you think? How would you
beat the death traps to Jigsaw? Let me know
with a comment down below. Thank you so much
for watching. Leave a like and subscribe.
And until next time, have a damn good day.